---
categories: System Design
date: 2024-06-14 11:02:00
tags:
- Networking
- TCP
- IP
- Protocols
- Transport Layer
title: TCP
---

{% include toc title="Index" %}

# TCP three-way handshake

The TCP handshake, also known as the TCP three-way handshake, is a method used
by
TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) to establish a connection between a client
and a server.

It's a fundamental process in networking that ensures both devices are ready to
send and receive data
**_before data transmission begins_**.

Here’s how it works:

### SYN (Synchronize):

The process starts when a client (such as a web browser) sends a TCP packet with
the **SYN** (Synchronize) flag set to the server.

This packet contains the client's initial sequence number, which is a random
number used to identify **segments** in the **data stream**.

### SYN-ACK (Synchronize-Acknowledge):

Upon receiving the SYN packet, if the server is available and **willing** to
communicate,
it **responds** with a TCP packet that has both the **SYN and ACK** (
Acknowledgment) flags set.

The server also selects its own initial sequence number and includes it in this
response.

### ACK (Acknowledge):

Finally, the client responds to the server’s SYN-ACK packet by **sending an ACK
packet back**.

This packet acknowledges the server's sequence number, and both sides of the
connection are now synchronized and ready
to exchange data.

Key points about the TCP handshake:

Connection Establishment: The handshake establishes a reliable connection
between the client and server,
ensuring that both parties are aware of each other and are ready to transfer
data.

Sequence Numbers: Each side of the connection selects an initial sequence number
to number the bytes of data sent during the connection. This helps in tracking
which
data has been received and which hasn't.

Acknowledgment: The ACK packets confirm the receipt of data and ensure reliable
communication by retransmitting any data that isn't acknowledged.

The TCP handshake is crucial for ensuring reliable, error-checked communication
between devices over a network, forming the basis of many internet protocols
like HTTP (for web browsing), FTP (file transfer), and more.