---
categories: System Design
date: 2024-01-21 11:02:00
tags:
- Security
- Encryption
- Authentication
- Best Practices
title: Security
---

{% include toc title="Index" %}

[Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/access-management/what-is-saml/#:~:text=Security%20Assertion%20Markup%20Language%2C%20or,that%20authentication%20to%20multiple%20applications)
make SSO possible

# Verification

- Captcha
- SSL/TLS
- Encryption Algorithm
    - ECC (Elliptic Curve Cryptography)
    - RSA
    - Diffie-Hellmon

### Digital Rights Management

- Fairplay

# Authentication

## Token based

The server generates a token (using public-private keys), after verifying
userid/password

- The token contains information about the user's permissions
- cant save from replay attacks if the token is left on a public browser

The private key is a secret number known only to the server, while the public
key is shared with others.

The public key can be used to decrypt the token and retrieve the authorization
details.

**Limitation**.
It does not protect against **replay attacks or token theft** (taking tokens
from postman or the web developer tools)

Despite the limitations, token-based authentication is widely used due to its
simplicity and efficiency.

- By including a time-oo-live (TTL) in the token, its validity can be
  controlled, and logging out will render it unusable.

## SSO - Single Sign-On

SAML Protocol (token generation is moved to external service)

- The user's credentials are checked by the external service, which then sends a
  token to the server.
- The server can decrypt the token and verify the user's permissions.

## OAuth (MAjorly for Authorization )

OAuth is widely used for authentication, even though it is originally designed
for authorization

- It involves integrating external services, such as Google or GitHub, with a
  server.
- The user is prompted to give permissions to the server, allowing it to access
  certain information from the external service,
  such as the user's name or profile photo. OAuth tokens are generated, and the
  server can use them for authentication purposes.
- OAuth is widely used for
- Opposite or SSO, Authorization on external systemns

# Authorization

## Access Control Lists (ACL)

Lists that define the actions that can be performed on objects. ACLs are grouped
together to form the access control matrix of the system.

- User-based
- Role-based
- resource-based
- group-based

## Rule Engine (Leasing)

a set of rules to determine whether a user or resource has permission to perform
an action

- Secret Keys/Client Keys

#### Access Control List

1. User based
2. Role based
3. Resource Based
4. Group based

Object Based
Group based

# Protection

- Hackers - DDOS Attacks, WAF
- Verification
- VPN
- Malicious code protection