---
layout: post
title:  "Test"
date:   2016-04-14 16:21:00
---
## Contents
{:.no_toc}

* Will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents" header
{:toc}


##### SQL
<i class="fa fa-question"></i> How to retrieve all the data from a table.

> <i class="fa fa-check"></i>
>  Use * wild card. Select * from tablename.

<i class="fa fa-question"></i> Retrieve a particular empid. 

> <i class="fa fa-check"></i>
>  Use **where** clause

<i class="fa fa-question"></i> How many types to delete the data

> - truncate (deletes data but not table): TRUNCATE removes all rows from a table
> - The DELETE command is used to remove rows from a table
>     + DELETE FROM emp WHERE job = 'CLERK';
>     +  you need to COMMIT or ROLLBACK the transaction to make the change permanent
> - drop table/database : deletes a table/database
>     +  All the tables' rows, indexes and privileges will also be removed
>     +  The operation cannot be rolled back. 
 
**Whiteboard:** Find count departments id where more than 5 employees. 

> ``` sql
> select count(*) AS "# employees", d.dname
      from dept d, employees e, mapping m
      where e.eid = m.eid AND d.did = m.did
      group by d.dname
      having count(*) > 5;
> ```
> 
> SET Theory: Inline-view, TOP-N Analysis
> Select 11th heighest salary.

```sql
select EMP_ID, SALARY from (select * from EMPLOYEE order by salary desc)
where rownum < 12 
MINUS
select EMP_ID, SALARY from (select * from EMPLOYEE order by salary desc)
where rownum < 11
```
 
**Whiteboard:** Followed by bonus : related to sub query. Name all the depts with more than 5 employees.

```sql
select d.dname
      from dept d, employees e, mapping m
      where e.eid = m.eid AND d.did = m.did
      group by d.dname
      having count(*) > 5;
```


<i class="fa fa-question"></i> Diff. in inner join and outer join

<pre>
JOINS : to combine rows from two or more tables, based on a common field between them.
    INNER (Common Type) – EQUI JOIN, NON-EQUI JOIN, NATURAL JOIN, SELF JOIN
    OUTER (Smarter than inner)– LEFT, RIGHT & FULL

    OUTER is result of INNER & some additional data   
</pre>
> **INNER JOIN**: Return rows as long as there one match in both tables
> 

SELECT SSN, E.Name AS EName, LastName, D.Name AS DName, Department, Code, Budget
 FROM Employees E **INNER JOIN** Departments D
 **ON** E.Department = D.Code;
 <br><br>**IS SAME AS**<br><br>
 SELECT SSN, E.Name AS Name_E, LastName, D.Name AS Name_D, Department, Code, Budget
 FROM **Employees E, Departments D**
 **where** E.Department = D.Code;

**SELF JOIN** – only one table is involved in join <br>

```sql
SELECT e1.ename||' works for '||e2.ename  AS
"Employees and their Managers" 
FROM emp e1 JOIN emp e2 ON (e1.mgr = e2.empno);
```

OR can be written as

```sql
SELECT e1.ename||' works for '||e2.ename  AS
"Employees and their Managers" 
FROM emp e1, emp e2 where (e1.mgr = e2.empno);
```

> <br>
> **LEFT OUTER JOIN**: Return all rows from the left table, even if there are 
> no matches in the right table and all matching rows from right<br>
> **RIGHT OUTER JOIN**: Return all rows from the right table and matching rows from left<br>
> **FULL OUTER JOIN**: Return rows when there is a match in one of the tables<br>
> <pre>
> The USING clause

The USING clause is used if several columns share the same name but you don’t want to join using all of these common columns. The columns listed in the USING clause can’t have any qualifiers in the statement, including the WHERE clause.
The ON clause

The ON clause is used to join tables where the column names don’t match in both tables. The join conditions are removed from the filter conditions in the WHERE clause.
</pre>
>Select * from customer c LEFT OUTER JOIN sales s ON c.cust_id = s.sales_id
Select * from customer c RIGHT OUTER JOIN sales s ON c.cust_id = s.sales_id
Select * from customer c FULL OUTER JOIN sales s ON c.cust_id = s.sales_id
> </pre>

<i class="fa fa-question"></i> what is left outer join and right outer join.

<i class="fa fa-question"></i> explain plan, performance tuning.

 - The EXPLAIN PLAN statement displays execution plans chosen by the Oracle optimizer for SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, and DELETE statements. A statement's execution plan is the sequence of operations Oracle performs to run the statement.

<i class="fa fa-question"></i> syntax for finding indexes in tuning.

> Indexes are special lookup tables that the database search engine can use to 
> speed up data retrieval. An index is a pointer to data in a 
> table. 
> <pre>
> CREATE UNIQUE INDEX index_name
ON table_name (column_name)
> </pre>
<i class="fa fa-question"></i> full table scan

<i class="fa fa-question"></i> index advantegs of indexes in sql tuning? What is the syntax of doing that.
> Indexes are a performance drag when the time comes to modify records. 

<i class="fa fa-question"></i> 

> Multiple Conditions : AND <br>
> ``` sql
> SELECT * from EMP WHERE salary > 10000 AND dateofjoining > ‘1-Jan-1990’ ;
> ```
> <br>Range Selection - BETWEEN
> ``` sql
> SELECT * from EMP WHERE salary between 9000 AND 20000;
> ```
> <br>Exact List Matching
> ```sql
> SELECT * from EMP WHERE employeeID IN (3001,  3002);
> ```

<i class="fa fa-question"></i> Full table scan

 - A full table scan occurs when an index is either not used or there is no index on the table(s)
 - Full table scans should be avoided when reading large tables.For example, a full table scan is performed when a table that does not have an index is read
 -  FTS will be performed even though an index is present on that table. 
     +  If a query does have a WHERE clause, but none of the columns in that WHERE clause match.
     +  when WHERE clause prevents the use of an index like below.
     +  If the NOT EQUAL (the “<>“) operator is used. 
     +  If the NOT operator is used. 
     +  If the wildcard operator is used in the first position of a comparison string. An example is “WHERE NAME LIKE ‘%INTERVIEW%'”.

##### Java
 - what are the data types
 - String equality
 - GC - when does the world stops
 - Java heaps - memory

**Whiteboard** Find popular name in a List of names. Most frequently name in a List


##### Linux

- what is ls.
    + list all the commands
 - Commands to see processesps commands and jobs command
     + top
     + ps -ef
     + GUI : System monitor (GNOME, KDE System -> Monitor)
     + kill -9 to terminate.
 - Error in file access. (File Permission)
     + Ownership permission (ugo -> USER, GROUP & OTHER)
     + Viweing Permission (r=4; w=2; x=1)
     + eg: 700 (rwx for u, none got g,o)
     + chmod for changing file permission (chmod 771 file.exe)
 - what is there in exe Folder.
     + *[Important Linux Files]({% post_url 2016-04-14-linux-files %})*.
 - grep : Search a pettern in File.
     + `grep ‘pattern to search’ file1 file2`
     + `grep -i -n ‘administrator’  file1.txt`
     + Ignoring the case ( -i)
     + Displaying line Numbers  ( -n )
 - How can u find a pattern and how to do recursively
     + grep -r "texthere" .
     + Recursively search "texthere" in PWD.
 - Given directory hierarchy. Find a file.
     + `find / -name 'program.c' 2>errors.txt`
         * Start searching from the root directory (i.e / directory)
         * `-name` : Given search text is the filename rather than any other attribute of a file
         * `'program.c'` Search text that we have entered. Always enclose the filename in single quotes.. why to do this is complex.. so simply do so.
         * `$ find /mp3collection -name '*.mp3' -size -5000k` find in /mp3collection, only those mp3 files that have a size less than 5000 Kilobytes ( < 5MB)
         * `$ find / -size +10000k` search from the / directory for any file that is larger than 10000k (> 10MB)
 - how do u connect to remove server securely.
     + `ssh remote_username@remote_host`
     + SSH keys should be generated on the computer you wish to log in from. This is usually your local computer. Enter the following into the command line. `ssh-keygen -t rsa`
 - remove the file from remote server      
     + `ssh username@domain.com 'rm /some/where/some_file.war'`
 - difference between move and copy
     + mv displaces the file, cp makes a new copy
 - diff : compare the two files.
     + cmp returns first occurrence of difference
     + diff returns all differences
 - Distributions & version of Linux
     + Fedora/RedHat based : Fedora 23, Cent OS
     + Debian Based : Ubuntu 15 LTS
     + Mac OS is based on a BSD code base
 - What is GNOME.
     + GNOME desktop and KDE

##### Hibernate
 - Disadvantage of Hibernate
<pre>
1. Not that flexible when it comes to mapping composite-ids (although you can do a lot). While this is not a fault of Hibernate as composite-ids are typically used in legacy systems, it can be a pain when attempting to map legacy tables.

2. Everything is an object. If you need only a portion of data (say, for a search), you would still have to retrieve the object. However, this is true for any ORM strategy.

3. In some cases, you will encounter the (n+1) select problem. That is, Hibernate will execute (n+1) queries for going through a list of records of size n. There are some mechanisms suggested by Hibernate that can be used to mitigate this risk.

4. Till Hibernate 3, you cannot map multiple tables to a single class. This has been fixed in Hibernate 3 using the join tag.
</pre>

 - Hibernate over JDBC
     + Make software database independent. Can replace any other database with this.


##### Spring
 - What is Dependency Injection
<pre>IOC(Inversion Of Controller):   Giving control to the container to get instance of object is called Inversion of Control., 
    • means instead of you are creating object using new operator, let the container do that for you.

DI(Dependency Injection):  Decoupling by passing an object to a function rather than CREATING the object the circle inside the method.
Way of injecting properties to an object is called Dependency injection.

    We have three types of Dependency injection
        1)  Constructor Injection : Constructor-based DI is accomplished when the container invokes a class constructor with a number of arguments, each representing a dependency on other class.
        2)  Setter/Getter Injection : Setter-based DI is accomplished by the container calling setter methods on your beans after invoking a no-argument constructor or no-argument static factory method to instantiate your bean.
        3)  Interface Injection
Spring support only Constructor Injection and Setter/Getter Injection.
</pre>
 - what is setter injection and constructor injection



