---
title: SSTables - Sorted String Tables
date: 2024-06-29 11:02:00
categories:
- System Design
tags:
- Database
---

{% include toc title="Index" %}

immutable on-disk “Map” implementation

SSTables (Sorted String Tables) are an immutable data structure used in
databases, especially those designed for
**high write** throughput and large-scale data management like Apache Cassandra
and LevelDB.

An SSTable contains **a set of sorted key-value pairs** and is written to disk
in a single pass.

### Key Characteristics of SSTables

**Immutability**: Once an SSTable is written to disk, it is never modified. This
immutability simplifies concurrency control and ensures data consistency.

**Sorted**: Keys in an SSTable are stored in a sorted order. This property
allows efficient range queries and quick lookups.

**Efficient Writes**: Since SSTables are written in bulk and not modified later,
write operations are fast.

**Efficient Reads**: The sorted nature of SSTables **enables binary search** for
key lookups, making read operations efficient.

**Compaction**: Over time, multiple SSTables are merged (compacted) into fewer,
larger SSTables to reclaim space and reduce read amplification.

### Structure of an SSTable

**Data File**: Contains the actual key-value pairs.

**Index File**: Provides an offset for each key, allowing for efficient lookups.

**Bloom Filter**: A probabilistic data structure that helps quickly determine if
a key is not present in the SSTable.

**Summary File**: A reduced index that allows for quick binary search in the
index file.

### Writing Data:

Data is initially written to a memtable (an in-memory structure).

Once the memtable reaches a certain size, it is flushed to disk as a new
SSTable.
This new SSTable is immutable and will not be modified.

### Reading Data:

To read a key, the database first checks **the bloom filter** to see if the key
is likely present in the SSTable.

If the bloom filter indicates the key might be present, **the index file is
consulted** to find **the offset** of the key in the data file.

The data file is then accessed at the given offset to retrieve the value.

### Compaction:

Over time, multiple SSTables can accumulate, which may lead to increased read
latency.

The compaction process merges these SSTables into fewer, larger SSTables,
discarding deleted data and redundant entries.

This process reduces the number of SSTables that need to be checked during read
operations, improving read performance.

### Use Cases

NoSQL Databases: Databases like Apache Cassandra and HBase utilize SSTables for
their storage engines.

Log-Structured Merge-Trees (LSM-Trees): SSTables are a key component of
LSM-Trees, which are used in storage systems requiring high write throughput.

SSTables are fundamental to the performance and scalability of modern
distributed databases, providing a robust solution for handling large volumes of
data efficiently.