---
title:  "Switch"
date:   2023-10-22 00:29:00
categories: ['Java']
tags: ['Java']
---

{% include toc title="Index" %}

# Statements vs. Expressions

In Java, expressions and statements are distinct. Expressions return values, and statements perform actions

* **An expression** can be variables, operators, and function calls that can be **evaluated** to produce **a single value**.
* Example: x + y, Math.sqrt(16), str.length(), 3 * (a + b).

* **A statement** Statements perform action but do not return anything
* Statement cause side-effects (except one statement no-op)
* Statements are used to control the flow of a program, define variables, execute loops, conditionals, and function
  declarations, and manage side effects.
* Example : if, for, while, switch, return, and variable declarations like int x = 5;
*

In JavaScript, expressions can be used as statements, and statements can often be used as expressions.
* For example, console.log(x + y);, where the expression x + y is used as a statement.


## Switch Statement (Traditional):

switch statement
* verbose
* error proneside-effects and force mutability

```java
int grade = 8;
String gradeValue;

switch (grade) {
    case 9:
    case 10:
        gradeValue = "A";
        break;
    case 8:
        gradeValue = "B";
        break;
    case 7:
        gradeValue = "C";
        break;
    case 6:
        gradeValue = "D";
        break;
    default:
        gradeValue = "F";
}

System.out.println("Grade: " + gradeValue);
```


## Switch Expression with Yield (Java 13 onwards):
No need to write break in this case

* concise
* less error prone
* no side effect

```java
int score = Math.min(score/10, 10);
String grade = switch (score) {
    case 9,10 -> "A";
    case 8 -> "B";
    case 7 -> "C";
    case 6 -> "D";
    default -> "F";
};
```

Switch taking an Enum 
```java
enum When{DAY, NIGHT}//, DAWN}

public static String lights(When when){//When is an Enum
    return switch (when){
        case DAY -> "No Light";
        case NIGHT -> "Lights needed";
    };
}
```
If you don't write the default, they write it for you.

the compiler fails if a new element gets added and recompiled, which is good

default -> never happens so how to cover the test case for it?

Should NOT write Default.
