---
categories:
- DevOps
date: 2024-09-14 20:14:00
tags:
- GitOps
- Infrastructure
- Git
- Automation
- Kubernetes
title: Git Ops
---

{% include toc title="Index" %}

**Scenario**: After the docker image is created (via build pipeline), a deploy
pipeline that deploys the image into GCP Kubernetes.

How does a Terraform script, the Helm Charts come into play in this scenario

```jenkins
stage('Deploy to Kubernetes') {
            steps {
                script {
                    // Deploy using Helm
                    sh 'helm upgrade --install my-application ./charts/my-application --values ./charts/my-application/values.yaml'
                }
            }
```

# Terraform

**Role: Infrastructure Provisioning**

**Infrastructure as Code**: Terraform is used to define and manage your cloud
infrastructure as code.

- This includes provisioning and managing resources like Google Kubernetes
  Engine (GKE) clusters,
    - networking components, storage, and other GCP resources.

**Setup GKE Cluster**: Terraform can create and configure the GKE cluster where
your Spring Boot microservice will be deployed.

**Manage Dependencies**: Terraform can also handle dependencies between
different infrastructure components,
ensuring that resources are created in the correct order and with the proper
configurations.

Example Use Cases:

**Create/Update GKE Clusters**: Define the cluster size, node pools, and other
settings.

**Network Configuration**: Set up VPCs, subnets, and firewall rules.

**IAM Roles**: Manage IAM roles and permissions needed for accessing and
managing GCP resources.

Uses Hashicorp Programming language

```hcl
provider "google" {
  credentials = file("<path-to-credentials>.json")
  project     = "<your-project-id>"
  region      = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_container_cluster" "primary" {
  name     = "my-cluster"
  location = "us-central1-a"
  initial_node_count = 3
  node_config {
    machine_type = "e2-medium"
  }
}
```

# Helm Charts

**Role: Application Deployment**

**Package Management**: Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes applications.
Helm Charts are used to define, install, and upgrade Kubernetes applications.

**Configuration Management**: Helm Charts can package your Spring Boot
microservice,
including its Kubernetes deployment manifests, service definitions, and any
other necessary Kubernetes resources.

**Version Control**: Helm Charts support versioning, making it easier to manage
and roll out updates to your microservices.

**Example Use Cases:**

**Deploy Microservices**: Use Helm Charts to deploy your Spring Boot
microservice to the GKE cluster.

**Manage Configurations**: Define and manage environment-specific configurations
such as database URLs, API keys, and other parameters.

**Upgrade and Rollback**: Helm allows you to easily upgrade or roll back
deployments if needed.

Helm Chart Example: The Helm Chart typically includes:

`Chart.yaml`: Metadata about the chart.

`values.yam`l: Default values for the chart configuration.

templates/: Kubernetes manifests for deployment, services, ingress, etc.
values.yaml

```shell
├── charts
│   └── my-application
│       ├── Chart.yaml
│       ├── requirements.yaml
│       ├── templates
│       │   ├── config.yaml
│       │   └── workload.yaml
│       └── values.yaml
├── Dockerfile
├── Jenkinsfile

```

# Workflow Integration

Terraform: First, use Terraform to set up the GKE cluster and any other
necessary GCP resources.
Helm: Next, use Helm Charts to deploy and manage your Spring Boot microservice
on the GKE cluster.